The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Republic by Plato

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Republic

Author: Plato

Translator: B. Jowett

Release Date: October 1998 [eBook #1497]
[Most recently updated: September 11 2021]

Language: English


Produced by: Sue Asscher and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE REPUBLIC ***




THE REPUBLIC

By Plato

Translated by Benjamin Jowett

Note: See also "The Republic" by Plato Jowett eBook #150


Contents

 INTRODUCTION AND ANALYSIS.
 THE REPUBLIC.
 PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE.
 BOOK I.
 BOOK II.
 BOOK III.
 BOOK IV.
 BOOK V.
 BOOK VI.
 BOOK VII.
 BOOK VIII.
 BOOK IX.
 BOOK X.




 INTRODUCTION AND ANALYSIS.


The Republic of Plato is the longest of his works with the exception of
the Laws and is certainly the greatest of them. There are nearer
approaches to modern metaphysics in the Philebus and in the Sophist
the Politicus or Statesman is more ideal the form and institutions of
the State are more clearly drawn out in the Laws as works of art the
Symposium and the Protagoras are of higher excellence. But no other
Dialogue of Plato has the same largeness of view and the same
perfection of style no other shows an equal knowledge of the world or
contains more of those thoughts which are new as well as old and not
of one age only but of all. Nowhere in Plato is there a deeper irony or
a greater wealth of humour or imagery or more dramatic power. Nor in
any other of his writings is the attempt made to interweave life and
speculation or to connect politics with philosophy. The Republic is
the centre around which the other Dialogues may be grouped here
philosophy reaches the highest point (cp especially in Books V VI
VII) to which ancient thinkers ever attained. Plato among the Greeks
like Bacon among the moderns was the first who conceived a method of
knowledge although neither of them always distinguished the bare
outline or form from the substance of truth and both of them had to be
content with an abstraction of science which was not yet realized. He
was the greatest metaphysical genius whom the world has seen and in
him more than in any other ancient thinker the germs of future
knowledge are contained. The sciences of logic and psychology which
have supplied so many instruments of thought to after-ages are based
upon the analyses of Socrates and Plato. The principles of definition
the law of contradiction the fallacy of arguing in a circle the
distinction between the essence and accidents of a thing or notion
between means and ends between causes and conditions also the
division of the mind into the rational concupiscent and irascible
elements or of pleasures and desires into necessary and
unnecessary—these and other great forms of thought are all of them to
be found in the Republic and were probably first invented by Plato.
The greatest of all logical truths and the one of which writers on
philosophy are most apt to lose sight the difference between words and
things has been most strenuously insisted on by him (cp. Rep. Polit.
Cratyl. 435 436 ff) although he has not always avoided the confusion
of them in his own writings (e.g. Rep.). But he does not bind up truth
in logical formulae—logic is still veiled in metaphysics and the
science which he imagines to contemplate all truth and all existence
is very unlike the doctrine of the syllogism which Aristotle claims to
have discovered (Soph. Elenchi 33. 18).
qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq